20-api-v2/acl.md, before:

## neo.fs.v2.acl




### Message BearerToken

BearerToken allows to attach signed Extended ACL rules to the request in
`RequestMetaHeader`. If container's Basic ACL rules allow, the attached rule
set will be checked instead of one attached to the container itself. Just
like [JWT](https://jwt.io), it has a limited lifetime and scope, hence can be
used in the similar use cases, like providing authorisation to externally
authenticated party.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| body | Body | Bearer Token body |
| signature | Signature | Signature of BearerToken body |
   
### Message BearerToken.Body

Bearer Token body structure contains Extended ACL table issued by container
owner with additional information preventing token's abuse.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| eacl_table | EACLTable | Table of Extended ACL rules to use instead of the ones attached to the container |
| owner_id | OwnerID | `OwnerID` to whom the token was issued. MUST match with the request originator's `OwnerID` |
| lifetime | TokenLifetime | Token expiration and valid time period parameters |
   
### Message BearerToken.Body.TokenLifetime

Lifetime parameters of the token. Filed names taken from
[rfc7519](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519).

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| exp | uint64 | Expiration Epoch |
| nbf | uint64 | Not valid before Epoch |
| iat | uint64 | Issued at Epoch |
   
### Message EACLRecord

Describes a single eACL rule.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| operation | Operation | NeoFS request Verb to match |
| action | Action | Rule execution result. Either allows or denies access if filters match. |
| filters | Filter | List of filters to match and see if rule is applicable |
| targets | Target | List of target subjects to apply ACL rule to |
   
### Message EACLRecord.Filter

Filter to check particular properties of the request or object.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header_type | HeaderType | Define if Object or Request header will be used |
| match_type | MatchType | Match operation type |
| header_name | string | Name of the Header to use |
| header_val | string | Expected Header Value or pattern to match |
   
### Message EACLRecord.Target

Target to apply ACL rule. Can be a subject's role class or a list of public
keys to match.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| role | Role | Target subject's role class |
| keys | bytes | List of public keys to identify target subject |
   
### Message EACLTable

Extended ACL rules table. Defined a list of ACL rules additionally to Basic
ACL. Extended ACL rules can be attached to the container and can be updated
or may be defined in `BearerToken` structure. Please see the corresponding
NeoFS Technical Specification's section for detailed description.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | eACL format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create eACL Table. |
| container_id | ContainerID | Identifier of the container that should use given access control rules |
| records | EACLRecord | List of Extended ACL rules |
    
### Emun Action

Rule execution result action. Either allows or denies access if the rule's
filters match.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | ACTION_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified action, default value |
| 1 | ALLOW | Allow action |
| 2 | DENY | Deny action |

### Emun HeaderType

Enumeration of possible sources of Headers to apply filters.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | HEADER_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified header, default value. |
| 1 | REQUEST | Filter request headers |
| 2 | OBJECT | Filter object headers |

### Emun MatchType

MatchType is an enumeration of match types.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | MATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified match type, default value. |
| 1 | STRING_EQUAL | Return true if strings are equal |
| 2 | STRING_NOT_EQUAL | Return true if strings are different |

### Emun Operation

Request's operation type to match if the rule is applicable to a particular
request.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | OPERATION_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified operation, default value |
| 1 | GET | Get |
| 2 | HEAD | Head |
| 3 | PUT | Put |
| 4 | DELETE | Delete |
| 5 | SEARCH | Search |
| 6 | GETRANGE | GetRange |
| 7 | GETRANGEHASH | GetRangeHash |

### Emun Role

Target role of the access control rule in access control list.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | ROLE_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified role, default value |
| 1 | USER | User target rule is applied if sender is the owner of the container |
| 2 | SYSTEM | System target rule is applied if sender is the storage node within the container or inner ring node |
| 3 | OTHERS | Others target rule is applied if sender is not user nor system target |

Commit message:

Update with NeoFS API v2.1.0 release changes
Signed-off-by: Stanislav Bogatyrev <stanislav@nspcc.ru>

20-api-v2/acl.md, after:

## neo.fs.v2.acl




### Message BearerToken

BearerToken allows to attach signed Extended ACL rules to the request in
`RequestMetaHeader`. If container's Basic ACL rules allow, the attached rule
set will be checked instead of one attached to the container itself. Just
like [JWT](https://jwt.io), it has a limited lifetime and scope, hence can be
used in the similar use cases, like providing authorisation to externally
authenticated party.

BearerToken can be issued only by container's owner and must be signed using
the key associated with container's `OwnerID`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| body | Body | Bearer Token body |
| signature | Signature | Signature of BearerToken body |
   
### Message BearerToken.Body

Bearer Token body structure contains Extended ACL table issued by container
owner with additional information preventing token's abuse.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| eacl_table | EACLTable | Table of Extended ACL rules to use instead of the ones attached to the container |
| owner_id | OwnerID | `OwnerID` to whom the token was issued. Must match the request originator's `OwnerID`. If empty, any token bearer will be accepted. |
| lifetime | TokenLifetime | Token expiration and valid time period parameters |
   
### Message BearerToken.Body.TokenLifetime

Lifetime parameters of the token. Field names taken from
[rfc7519](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519).

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| exp | uint64 | Expiration Epoch |
| nbf | uint64 | Not valid before Epoch |
| iat | uint64 | Issued at Epoch |
   
### Message EACLRecord

Describes a single eACL rule.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| operation | Operation | NeoFS request Verb to match |
| action | Action | Rule execution result. Either allows or denies access if filters match. |
| filters | Filter | List of filters to match and see if rule is applicable |
| targets | Target | List of target subjects to apply ACL rule to |
   
### Message EACLRecord.Filter

Filter to check particular properties of the request or object.

By default `key` field refers to the corresponding object's `Attribute`.
Some Object's header fields can also be accessed by adding `$Object:`
prefix to the name. Here is the list of fields available via this prefix:

* $Object:version \
  version
* $Object:objectID \
  object_id
* $Object:containerID \
  container_id
* $Object:ownerID \
  owner_id
* $Object:creationEpoch \
  creation_epoch
* $Object:payloadLength \
  payload_length
* $Object:payloadHash \
  payload_hash
* $Object:objectType \
  object_type
* $Object:homomorphicHash \
  homomorphic_hash

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header_type | HeaderType | Define if Object or Request header will be used |
| match_type | MatchType | Match operation type |
| key | string | Name of the Header to use |
| value | string | Expected Header Value or pattern to match |
   
### Message EACLRecord.Target

Target to apply ACL rule. Can be a subject's role class or a list of public
keys to match.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| role | Role | Target subject's role class |
| keys | bytes | List of public keys to identify target subject |
   
### Message EACLTable

Extended ACL rules table. Defined a list of ACL rules additionally to Basic
ACL. Extended ACL rules can be attached to the container and can be updated
or may be defined in `BearerToken` structure. Please see the corresponding
NeoFS Technical Specification's section for detailed description.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | eACL format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create eACL Table. |
| container_id | ContainerID | Identifier of the container that should use given access control rules |
| records | EACLRecord | List of Extended ACL rules |
    
### Emun Action

Rule execution result action. Either allows or denies access if the rule's
filters match.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | ACTION_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified action, default value |
| 1 | ALLOW | Allow action |
| 2 | DENY | Deny action |

### Emun HeaderType

Enumeration of possible sources of Headers to apply filters.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | HEADER_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified header, default value. |
| 1 | REQUEST | Filter request headers |
| 2 | OBJECT | Filter object headers |

### Emun MatchType

MatchType is an enumeration of match types.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | MATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified match type, default value. |
| 1 | STRING_EQUAL | Return true if strings are equal |
| 2 | STRING_NOT_EQUAL | Return true if strings are different |

### Emun Operation

Request's operation type to match if the rule is applicable to a particular
request.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | OPERATION_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified operation, default value |
| 1 | GET | Get |
| 2 | HEAD | Head |
| 3 | PUT | Put |
| 4 | DELETE | Delete |
| 5 | SEARCH | Search |
| 6 | GETRANGE | GetRange |
| 7 | GETRANGEHASH | GetRangeHash |

### Emun Role

Target role of the access control rule in access control list.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | ROLE_UNSPECIFIED | Unspecified role, default value |
| 1 | USER | User target rule is applied if sender is the owner of the container |
| 2 | SYSTEM | System target rule is applied if sender is the storage node within the container or inner ring node |
| 3 | OTHERS | Others target rule is applied if sender is not user nor system target |
