20-api-v2/netmap.md, before:

## neo.fs.v2.netmap



### Service "NetmapService"

`NetmapService` provides methods to work with `Network Map` and information
required to build it. The resulting `Network Map` is stored in sidechain
`Netmap` smart contract, while related information can be obtained from other
NeoFS nodes.


### Method LocalNodeInfo

Get NodeInfo structure from the particular node directly. Node information
can be taken from `Netmap` smart contract, but in some cases the one may
want to get recent information directly, or to talk to the node not yet
present in `Network Map` to find out what API version can be used for
further communication. Can also be used to check if node is up and running.

 

__Request Body:__ LocalNodeInfoRequest.Body

LocalNodeInfo request body is empty.

        

__Response Body__ LocalNodeInfoResponse.Body

Local Node Info, including API Version in use.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Latest NeoFS API version in use |
| node_info | NodeInfo | NodeInfo structure with recent information from node itself |
          
### Message Filter

Filter will return the subset of nodes from `NetworkMap` or another filter's
results, that will satisfy filter's conditions.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| name | string | Name of the filter or a reference to the named filter. '*' means application to the whole unfiltered NetworkMap. At top level it's used as a filter name. At lower levels it's considered to be a reference to another named filter |
| key | string | Key to filter |
| op | Operation | Filtering operation |
| value | string | Value to match |
| filters | Filter | List of inner filters. Top level operation will be applied to the whole list. |
   
### Message NodeInfo

NeoFS node description

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| public_key | bytes | Public key of the NeoFS node in a binary format. |
| address | string | Ways to connect to a node |
| attributes | Attribute | Carries list of the NeoFS node attributes in a string key-value format. |
| state | State | Carries state of the NeoFS node. |
   
### Message NodeInfo.Attribute

Administrator-defined Attributes of the NeoFS Storage Node.

Node's attributes are mostly used during Storage Policy evaluation to
calculate object's placement and find a set of nodes satisfying policy
requirements. There are some "well-known" node attributes common to all the
Storage Nodes in the network and used implicitly with default values if not
explicitly set:

* Capacity \
  Total available disk space in Gigabytes.
* Price \
  Price in GAS tokens for storing one GB of data during one Epoch. In node
  attributes it's a string presenting floating point number with comma or
  point delimiter for decimal part. In the Network Map it will be saved as
  64-bit unsigned integer representing number of minimal token fractions.
* Subnet \
  String ID of Node's storage subnet. There can be only one subnet served
  by the Storage Node.
* Locode \
  Node's geographic location in
  [UN/LOCODE](https://www.unece.org/cefact/codesfortrade/codes_index.html)
  format approximated to the nearest point defined in standard.
* Country \
  Country code in
  [ISO 3166-1_alpha-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2)
  format. Calculated automatically from `Locode` attribute
* Region \
  Country's administative subdivision where node is located. Calculated
  automatically from `Locode` attribute based on `SubDiv` field. Presented
  in [ISO 3166-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2) format.
* City \
  City, town, village or rural area name where node is located written
  without diacritics . Calculated automatically from `Locode` attribute.

For detailed description of each well-known attribute please see the
corresponding section in NeoFS Technical specification.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| key | string | Key of the node attribute. |
| value | string | Value of the node attribute. |
| parents | string | Parent keys, if any. For example for `City` it could be `Region` and `Country`. |
   
### Message PlacementPolicy

Set of rules to select a subset of nodes from `NetworkMap` able to store
container's objects. The format is simple enough to transpile from different
storage policy definition languages.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| replicas | Replica | Rules to set number of object replicas and place each one into a named bucket |
| container_backup_factor | uint32 | Container backup factor controls how deep NeoFS will search for nodes alternatives to include into container's nodes subset |
| selectors | Selector | Set of Selectors to form the container's nodes subset |
| filters | Filter | List of named filters to reference in selectors |
   
### Message Replica

Number of object replicas in a set of nodes from the defined selector. If no
selector set the root bucket containing all possible nodes will be used by
default.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| count | uint32 | How many object replicas to put |
| selector | string | Named selector bucket to put replicas |
   
### Message Selector

Selector chooses a number of nodes from the bucket taking the nearest nodes
to the provided `ContainerID` by hash distance.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| name | string | Selector name to reference in object placement section |
| count | uint32 | How many nodes to select from the bucket |
| clause | Clause | Selector modifier showing how to form a bucket |
| attribute | string | Attribute bucket to select from |
| filter | string | Filter reference to select from |
    
### Emun Clause

Selector modifier shows how the node set will be formed. By default selector
just groups nodes into a bucket by attribute, selecting nodes only by their
hash distance.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | CLAUSE_UNSPECIFIED | No modifier defined. Will select nodes from bucket randomly. |
| 1 | SAME | SAME will select only nodes having the same value of bucket attribute |
| 2 | DISTINCT | DISTINCT will select nodes having different values of bucket attribute |

### Emun NodeInfo.State

Represents the enumeration of various states of the NeoFS node.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | UNSPECIFIED | Unknown state. |
| 1 | ONLINE | Active state in the network. |
| 2 | OFFLINE | Network unavailable state. |

### Emun Operation

Operations on filters

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | OPERATION_UNSPECIFIED | No Operation defined |
| 1 | EQ | Equal |
| 2 | NE | Not Equal |
| 3 | GT | Greater then |
| 4 | GE | Greater or equal |
| 5 | LT | Less then |
| 6 | LE | Less or equal |
| 7 | OR | Logical OR |
| 8 | AND | Logical AND |

Commit message:

Update with NeoFS API v2.1.0 release changes
Signed-off-by: Stanislav Bogatyrev <stanislav@nspcc.ru>

20-api-v2/netmap.md, after:

## neo.fs.v2.netmap



### Service "NetmapService"

`NetmapService` provides methods to work with `Network Map` and information
required to build it. The resulting `Network Map` is stored in sidechain
`Netmap` smart contract, while related information can be obtained from other
NeoFS nodes.


### Method LocalNodeInfo

Get NodeInfo structure from the particular node directly. Node information
can be taken from `Netmap` smart contract, but in some cases the one may
want to get recent information directly, or to talk to the node not yet
present in `Network Map` to find out what API version can be used for
further communication. Can also be used to check if node is up and running.

 

__Request Body:__ LocalNodeInfoRequest.Body

LocalNodeInfo request body is empty.

        

__Response Body__ LocalNodeInfoResponse.Body

Local Node Info, including API Version in use.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Latest NeoFS API version in use |
| node_info | NodeInfo | NodeInfo structure with recent information from node itself |
          
### Message Filter

Filter will return the subset of nodes from `NetworkMap` or another filter's
results, that will satisfy filter's conditions.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| name | string | Name of the filter or a reference to the named filter. '*' means application to the whole unfiltered NetworkMap. At top level it's used as a filter name. At lower levels it's considered to be a reference to another named filter |
| key | string | Key to filter |
| op | Operation | Filtering operation |
| value | string | Value to match |
| filters | Filter | List of inner filters. Top level operation will be applied to the whole list. |
   
### Message NodeInfo

NeoFS node description

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| public_key | bytes | Public key of the NeoFS node in a binary format. |
| address | string | Ways to connect to a node |
| attributes | Attribute | Carries list of the NeoFS node attributes in a key-value form. Key name must be a node-unique valid UTF-8 string. Value can't be empty. NodeInfo structures with duplicated attribute names or attributes with empty values will be considered invalid. |
| state | State | Carries state of the NeoFS node. |
   
### Message NodeInfo.Attribute

Administrator-defined Attributes of the NeoFS Storage Node.

`Attribute` is a Key-Value metadata pair. Key name must be a valid UTF-8
string. Value can't be empty.

Node's attributes are mostly used during Storage Policy evaluation to
calculate object's placement and find a set of nodes satisfying policy
requirements. There are some "well-known" node attributes common to all the
Storage Nodes in the network and used implicitly with default values if not
explicitly set:

* Capacity \
  Total available disk space in Gigabytes.
* Price \
  Price in GAS tokens for storing one GB of data during one Epoch. In node
  attributes it's a string presenting floating point number with comma or
  point delimiter for decimal part. In the Network Map it will be saved as
  64-bit unsigned integer representing number of minimal token fractions.
* Subnet \
  String ID of Node's storage subnet. There can be only one subnet served
  by the Storage Node.
* Locode \
  Node's geographic location in
  [UN/LOCODE](https://www.unece.org/cefact/codesfortrade/codes_index.html)
  format approximated to the nearest point defined in standard.
* Country \
  Country code in
  [ISO 3166-1_alpha-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2)
  format. Calculated automatically from `Locode` attribute
* Region \
  Country's administative subdivision where node is located. Calculated
  automatically from `Locode` attribute based on `SubDiv` field. Presented
  in [ISO 3166-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2) format.
* City \
  City, town, village or rural area name where node is located written
  without diacritics . Calculated automatically from `Locode` attribute.

For detailed description of each well-known attribute please see the
corresponding section in NeoFS Technical specification.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| key | string | Key of the node attribute. |
| value | string | Value of the node attribute. |
| parents | string | Parent keys, if any. For example for `City` it could be `Region` and `Country`. |
   
### Message PlacementPolicy

Set of rules to select a subset of nodes from `NetworkMap` able to store
container's objects. The format is simple enough to transpile from different
storage policy definition languages.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| replicas | Replica | Rules to set number of object replicas and place each one into a named bucket |
| container_backup_factor | uint32 | Container backup factor controls how deep NeoFS will search for nodes alternatives to include into container's nodes subset |
| selectors | Selector | Set of Selectors to form the container's nodes subset |
| filters | Filter | List of named filters to reference in selectors |
   
### Message Replica

Number of object replicas in a set of nodes from the defined selector. If no
selector set the root bucket containing all possible nodes will be used by
default.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| count | uint32 | How many object replicas to put |
| selector | string | Named selector bucket to put replicas |
   
### Message Selector

Selector chooses a number of nodes from the bucket taking the nearest nodes
to the provided `ContainerID` by hash distance.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| name | string | Selector name to reference in object placement section |
| count | uint32 | How many nodes to select from the bucket |
| clause | Clause | Selector modifier showing how to form a bucket |
| attribute | string | Attribute bucket to select from |
| filter | string | Filter reference to select from |
    
### Emun Clause

Selector modifier shows how the node set will be formed. By default selector
just groups nodes into a bucket by attribute, selecting nodes only by their
hash distance.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | CLAUSE_UNSPECIFIED | No modifier defined. Will select nodes from bucket randomly. |
| 1 | SAME | SAME will select only nodes having the same value of bucket attribute |
| 2 | DISTINCT | DISTINCT will select nodes having different values of bucket attribute |

### Emun NodeInfo.State

Represents the enumeration of various states of the NeoFS node.

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | UNSPECIFIED | Unknown state. |
| 1 | ONLINE | Active state in the network. |
| 2 | OFFLINE | Network unavailable state. |

### Emun Operation

Operations on filters

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | OPERATION_UNSPECIFIED | No Operation defined |
| 1 | EQ | Equal |
| 2 | NE | Not Equal |
| 3 | GT | Greater then |
| 4 | GE | Greater or equal |
| 5 | LT | Less then |
| 6 | LE | Less or equal |
| 7 | OR | Logical OR |
| 8 | AND | Logical AND |
