20-api-v2/object.md, before:

## neo.fs.v2.object



### Service "ObjectService"

`ObjectService` provides API for manipulating objects. Object operations do
not interact with sidechain and are only served by nodes in p2p style.


### Method Get

Receive full object structure, including Headers and payload. Response uses
gRPC stream. First response message carries object with requested address.
Chunk messages are parts of the object's payload if it is needed. All
messages, except the first one, carry payload chunks. Requested object can
be restored by concatenation of object message payload and all chunks
keeping receiving order.

             

__Request Body:__ GetRequest.Body

GET Object request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the requested object |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetResponse.Body

GET Object Response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| init | Init | Initial part of the object stream |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy for object assembly. |
                     
### Method Put

Put the object into container. Request uses gRPC stream. First message
SHOULD be of PutHeader type. `ContainerID` and `OwnerID` of an object
SHOULD be set. Session token SHOULD be obtained before `PUT` operation (see
session package). Chunk messages are considered by server as a part of an
object payload. All messages, except first one, SHOULD be payload chunks.
Chunk messages SHOULD be sent in direct order of fragmentation.

                       

__Request Body:__ PutRequest.Body

PUT request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| init | Init | Initial part of the object stream |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload |
                                       

__Response Body__ PutResponse.Body

PUT Object response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Identifier of the saved object |
          
### Method Delete

Delete the object from a container. There is no immediate removal
guarantee. Object will be marked for removal and deleted eventually.

 

__Request Body:__ DeleteRequest.Body

Object DELETE request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object to be deleted |
                                      

__Response Body__ DeleteResponse.Body

Object DELETE Response has an empty body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| tombstone | Address | Address of the tombstone created for the deleted object |
                                 
### Method Head

Returns the object Headers without data payload. By default full header is
returned. If `main_only` request field is set, the short header with only
the very minimal information would be returned instead.

                  

__Request Body:__ HeadRequest.Body

Object HEAD request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object with the requested Header |
| main_only | bool | Return only minimal header subset |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node |
                                      

__Response Body__ HeadResponse.Body

Object HEAD response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header | HeaderWithSignature | Full object's `Header` with `ObjectID` signature |
| short_header | ShortHeader | Short object header |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy. |
                
### Method Search

Search objects in container. Search query allows to match by Object
Header's filed values. Please see the corresponding NeoFS Technical
Specification section for more details.

                             

__Request Body:__ SearchRequest.Body

Object Search request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| container_id | ContainerID | Container identifier were to search |
| version | uint32 | Version of the Query Language used |
| filters | Filter | List of search expressions |
                                       

__Response Body__ SearchResponse.Body

Object Search response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| id_list | ObjectID | List of `ObjectID`s that match the search query |
    
### Method GetRange

Get byte range of data payload. Range is set as an (offset, length) tuple.
Like in `Get` method, the response uses gRPC stream. Requested range can be
restored by concatenation of all received payload chunks keeping receiving
order.

         

__Request Body:__ GetRangeRequest.Body

Byte range of object's payload request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object containing the requested payload range |
| range | Range | Requested payload range |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node. |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetRangeResponse.Body

Get Range response body uses streams to transfer the response. Because
object payload considered a byte sequence, there is no need to have some
initial preamble message. The requested byte range is sent as a series
chunks.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload's range. |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy. |
                         
### Method GetRangeHash

Returns homomorphic or regular hash of object's payload range after
applying XOR operation with the provided `salt`. Ranges are set of (offset,
length) tuples. Hashes order in response corresponds to ranges order in
request. Note that hash is calculated for XORed data.

     

__Request Body:__ GetRangeHashRequest.Body

Get hash of object's payload part request body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object that containing the requested payload range |
| ranges | Range | List of object's payload ranges to calculate homomorphic hash |
| salt | bytes | Binary salt to XOR object's payload ranges before hash calculation |
| type | ChecksumType | Checksum algorithm type |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetRangeHashResponse.Body

Get hash of object's payload part response body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| type | ChecksumType | Checksum algorithm type |
| hash_list | bytes | List of range hashes in a binary format |
                                             
### Message GetResponse.Body.Init

Initial part of the `Object` structure stream. Technically it's a
set of all `Object` structure's fields except `payload`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Object's unique identifier. |
| signature | Signature | Signed `ObjectID` |
| header | Header | Object metadata headers |
       
### Message HeaderWithSignature

Tuple of full object header and signature of `ObjectID`. \
Signed `ObjectID` is present to verify full header's authenticity through the
following steps:

1. Calculate `SHA-256` of marshalled `Header` structure
2. Check if the resulting hash matched `ObjectID`
3. Check if `ObjectID` signature in `signature` field is correct

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header | Header | Full object header |
| signature | Signature | Signed `ObjectID` to verify full header's authenticity |
     
### Message PutRequest.Body.Init

Newly created object structure parameters. If some optional parameters
are not set, they will be calculated by a peer node.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | ObjectID if available. |
| signature | Signature | Object signature if available |
| header | Header | Object's Header |
| copies_number | uint32 | Number of the object copies to store within the RPC call. By default object is processed according to the container's placement policy. |
     
### Message Range

Object payload range.Ranges of zero length SHOULD be considered as invalid.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| offset | uint64 | Offset of the range from the object payload start |
| length | uint64 | Length in bytes of the object payload range |
     
### Message SearchRequest.Body.Filter

Filter structure checks if object header field or attribute content
matches a value.

By default `key` field refers to the corresponding object's `Attribute`.
Some Object's header fields can also be accessed by adding `$Object:`
prefix to the name. Here is the list of fields available via this prefix:

* $Object:version \
  version
* $Object:objectID \
  object_id
* $Object:containerID \
  container_id
* $Object:ownerID \
  owner_id
* $Object:creationEpoch \
  creation_epoch
* $Object:payloadLength \
  payload_length
* $Object:payloadHash \
  payload_hash
* $Object:objectType \
  object_type
* $Object:homomorphicHash \
  homomorphic_hash
* $Object:split.parent \
  object_id of parent
* $Object:split.splitID \
  16 byte UUIDv4 used to identify the split object hierarchy parts

There are some well-known filter aliases to match objects by certain
properties:

* $Object:ROOT \
  Returns only `REGULAR` type objects that are not split or are the top
  level root objects in a split hierarchy. This includes objects not
  present physically, like large objects split into smaller objects
  without separate top-level root object. Other type objects like
  StorageGroups and Tombstones will not be shown. This filter may be
  useful for listing objects like `ls` command of some virtual file
  system. This filter is activated if the `key` exists, disregarding the
  value and matcher type.
* $Object:PHY \
  Returns only objects physically stored in the system. This filter is
  activated if the `key` exists, disregarding the value and matcher type.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| match_type | MatchType | Match type to use |
| key | string | Attribute or Header fields to match |
| value | string | Value to match |
       
### Message Header

Object Header

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Object format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create particular object |
| container_id | ContainerID | Object's container |
| owner_id | OwnerID | Object's owner |
| creation_epoch | uint64 | Object creation Epoch |
| payload_length | uint64 | Size of payload in bytes. `0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF` means `payload_length` is unknown. |
| payload_hash | Checksum | Hash of payload bytes |
| object_type | ObjectType | Type of the object payload content |
| homomorphic_hash | Checksum | Homomorphic hash of the object payload |
| session_token | SessionToken | Session token, if it was used during Object creation. Need it to verify integrity and authenticity out of Request scope. |
| attributes | Attribute | User-defined object attributes |
| split | Split | Position of the object in the split hierarchy |
   
### Message Header.Attribute

`Attribute` is a user-defined Key-Value metadata pair attached to the
object.

Key name must be a object-unique valid UTF-8 string. Value can't be empty.
Objects with duplicated attribute names or attributes with empty values
will be considered invalid.

There are some "well-known" attributes starting with `__NEOFS__` prefix
that affect system behaviour:

* __NEOFS__UPLOAD_ID \
  Marks smaller parts of a split bigger object
* __NEOFS__EXPIRATION_EPOCH \
  Tells GC to delete object after that epoch

And some well-known attributes used by applications only:

* Name \
  Human-friendly name
* FileName \
  File name to be associated with the object on saving
* Timestamp \
  User-defined local time of object creation in Unix Timestamp format

For detailed description of each well-known attribute please see the
corresponding section in NeoFS Technical specification.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| key | string | string key to the object attribute |
| value | string | string value of the object attribute |
   
### Message Header.Split

Bigger objects can be split into a chain of smaller objects. Information
about inter-dependencies between spawned objects and how to re-construct
the original one is in the `Split` headers. Parent and children objects
must be within the same container.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| parent | ObjectID | Identifier of the origin object. Known only to the minor child. |
| previous | ObjectID | Identifier of the left split neighbor |
| parent_signature | Signature | `signature` field of the parent object. Used to reconstruct parent. |
| parent_header | Header | `header` field of the parent object. Used to reconstruct parent. |
| children | ObjectID | List of identifiers of the objects generated by splitting current one. |
| split_id | bytes | 16 byte UUIDv4 used to identify the split object hierarchy parts. Must be unique inside container. All objects participating in the split must have the same `split_id` value. |
   
### Message Object

Object structure. Object is immutable and content-addressed. It means
`ObjectID` will change if header or payload changes. It's calculated as a
hash of header field, which contains hash of object's payload.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Object's unique identifier. |
| signature | Signature | Signed object_id |
| header | Header | Object metadata headers |
| payload | bytes | Payload bytes |
   
### Message ShortHeader

Short header fields

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Object format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create particular object. |
| creation_epoch | uint64 | Epoch when the object was created |
| owner_id | OwnerID | Object's owner |
| object_type | ObjectType | Type of the object payload content |
| payload_length | uint64 | Size of payload in bytes. `0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF` means `payload_length` is unknown |
| payload_hash | Checksum | Hash of payload bytes |
| homomorphic_hash | Checksum | Homomorphic hash of the object payload |
   
### Message SplitInfo

Meta information of split hierarchy for object assembly. With last part
one can traverse linked list of split hierarchy back to first part and
assemble original object. With linking object one can assembly object
straight away from the object parts.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| split_id | bytes | 16 byte UUID used to identify the split object hierarchy parts. |
| last_part | ObjectID | Identifier of the last object in split hierarchy parts. It contains split header with original object header. |
| link | ObjectID | Identifier of linking object for split hierarchy parts. It contains split header with original object header and sorted list of object parts. |
    
### Emun MatchType

Type of match expression

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | MATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED | Unknown. Not used |
| 1 | STRING_EQUAL | Full string match |

### Emun ObjectType

Type of the object payload content. Only `REGULAR` type objects can be split,
hence `TOMBSTONE` and `STORAGEGROUP` payload is limited by maximal object
size.

String presentation of object type is PascalCased `ObjectType` enumeration
item name:
* Regular
* Tombstone
* StorageGroup

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | REGULAR | Just a normal object |
| 1 | TOMBSTONE | Used internally to identify deleted objects |
| 2 | STORAGE_GROUP | StorageGroup information |

Commit message:

Update NeoFS API docs to match v2.3.0
Signed-off-by: Stanislav Bogatyrev <stanislav@nspcc.ru>

20-api-v2/object.md, after:

## neo.fs.v2.object



### Service "ObjectService"

`ObjectService` provides API for manipulating objects. Object operations do
not interact with sidechain and are only served by nodes in p2p style.


### Method Get

Receive full object structure, including Headers and payload. Response uses
gRPC stream. First response message carries object with requested address.
Chunk messages are parts of the object's payload if it is needed. All
messages, except the first one, carry payload chunks. Requested object can
be restored by concatenation of object message payload and all chunks
keeping receiving order.

             

__Request Body:__ GetRequest.Body

GET Object request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the requested object |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetResponse.Body

GET Object Response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| init | Init | Initial part of the object stream |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy for object assembly. |
                     
### Method Put

Put the object into container. Request uses gRPC stream. First message
SHOULD be of PutHeader type. `ContainerID` and `OwnerID` of an object
SHOULD be set. Session token SHOULD be obtained before `PUT` operation (see
session package). Chunk messages are considered by server as a part of an
object payload. All messages, except first one, SHOULD be payload chunks.
Chunk messages SHOULD be sent in direct order of fragmentation.

                       

__Request Body:__ PutRequest.Body

PUT request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| init | Init | Initial part of the object stream |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload |
                                       

__Response Body__ PutResponse.Body

PUT Object response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Identifier of the saved object |
          
### Method Delete

Delete the object from a container. There is no immediate removal
guarantee. Object will be marked for removal and deleted eventually.

 

__Request Body:__ DeleteRequest.Body

Object DELETE request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object to be deleted |
                                      

__Response Body__ DeleteResponse.Body

Object DELETE Response has an empty body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| tombstone | Address | Address of the tombstone created for the deleted object |
                                 
### Method Head

Returns the object Headers without data payload. By default full header is
returned. If `main_only` request field is set, the short header with only
the very minimal information would be returned instead.

                  

__Request Body:__ HeadRequest.Body

Object HEAD request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object with the requested Header |
| main_only | bool | Return only minimal header subset |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node |
                                      

__Response Body__ HeadResponse.Body

Object HEAD response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header | HeaderWithSignature | Full object's `Header` with `ObjectID` signature |
| short_header | ShortHeader | Short object header |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy. |
                
### Method Search

Search objects in container. Search query allows to match by Object
Header's filed values. Please see the corresponding NeoFS Technical
Specification section for more details.

                             

__Request Body:__ SearchRequest.Body

Object Search request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| container_id | ContainerID | Container identifier were to search |
| version | uint32 | Version of the Query Language used |
| filters | Filter | List of search expressions |
                                       

__Response Body__ SearchResponse.Body

Object Search response body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| id_list | ObjectID | List of `ObjectID`s that match the search query |
    
### Method GetRange

Get byte range of data payload. Range is set as an (offset, length) tuple.
Like in `Get` method, the response uses gRPC stream. Requested range can be
restored by concatenation of all received payload chunks keeping receiving
order.

         

__Request Body:__ GetRangeRequest.Body

Byte range of object's payload request body

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object containing the requested payload range |
| range | Range | Requested payload range |
| raw | bool | If `raw` flag is set, request will work only with objects that are physically stored on the peer node. |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetRangeResponse.Body

Get Range response body uses streams to transfer the response. Because
object payload considered a byte sequence, there is no need to have some
initial preamble message. The requested byte range is sent as a series
chunks.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| chunk | bytes | Chunked object payload's range. |
| split_info | SplitInfo | Meta information of split hierarchy. |
                         
### Method GetRangeHash

Returns homomorphic or regular hash of object's payload range after
applying XOR operation with the provided `salt`. Ranges are set of (offset,
length) tuples. Hashes order in response corresponds to ranges order in
request. Note that hash is calculated for XORed data.

     

__Request Body:__ GetRangeHashRequest.Body

Get hash of object's payload part request body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| address | Address | Address of the object that containing the requested payload range |
| ranges | Range | List of object's payload ranges to calculate homomorphic hash |
| salt | bytes | Binary salt to XOR object's payload ranges before hash calculation |
| type | ChecksumType | Checksum algorithm type |
                                      

__Response Body__ GetRangeHashResponse.Body

Get hash of object's payload part response body.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| type | ChecksumType | Checksum algorithm type |
| hash_list | bytes | List of range hashes in a binary format |
                                             
### Message GetResponse.Body.Init

Initial part of the `Object` structure stream. Technically it's a
set of all `Object` structure's fields except `payload`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Object's unique identifier. |
| signature | Signature | Signed `ObjectID` |
| header | Header | Object metadata headers |
       
### Message HeaderWithSignature

Tuple of full object header and signature of `ObjectID`. \
Signed `ObjectID` is present to verify full header's authenticity through the
following steps:

1. Calculate `SHA-256` of marshalled `Header` structure
2. Check if the resulting hash matched `ObjectID`
3. Check if `ObjectID` signature in `signature` field is correct

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| header | Header | Full object header |
| signature | Signature | Signed `ObjectID` to verify full header's authenticity |
     
### Message PutRequest.Body.Init

Newly created object structure parameters. If some optional parameters
are not set, they will be calculated by a peer node.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | ObjectID if available. |
| signature | Signature | Object signature if available |
| header | Header | Object's Header |
| copies_number | uint32 | Number of the object copies to store within the RPC call. By default object is processed according to the container's placement policy. |
     
### Message Range

Object payload range.Ranges of zero length SHOULD be considered as invalid.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| offset | uint64 | Offset of the range from the object payload start |
| length | uint64 | Length in bytes of the object payload range |
     
### Message SearchRequest.Body.Filter

Filter structure checks if object header field or attribute content
matches a value.

By default `key` field refers to the corresponding object's `Attribute`.
Some Object's header fields can also be accessed by adding `$Object:`
prefix to the name. Here is the list of fields available via this prefix:

* $Object:version \
  version
* $Object:objectID \
  object_id
* $Object:containerID \
  container_id
* $Object:ownerID \
  owner_id
* $Object:creationEpoch \
  creation_epoch
* $Object:payloadLength \
  payload_length
* $Object:payloadHash \
  payload_hash
* $Object:objectType \
  object_type
* $Object:homomorphicHash \
  homomorphic_hash
* $Object:split.parent \
  object_id of parent
* $Object:split.splitID \
  16 byte UUIDv4 used to identify the split object hierarchy parts

There are some well-known filter aliases to match objects by certain
properties:

* $Object:ROOT \
  Returns only `REGULAR` type objects that are not split or are the top
  level root objects in a split hierarchy. This includes objects not
  present physically, like large objects split into smaller objects
  without separate top-level root object. Other type objects like
  StorageGroups and Tombstones will not be shown. This filter may be
  useful for listing objects like `ls` command of some virtual file
  system. This filter is activated if the `key` exists, disregarding the
  value and matcher type.
* $Object:PHY \
  Returns only objects physically stored in the system. This filter is
  activated if the `key` exists, disregarding the value and matcher type.

Note: using filters with a key with prefix `$Object:` and match type
`NOT_PRESENT `is not recommended since this is not a cross-version approach.
Behavior when processing this kind of filters is undefined.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| match_type | MatchType | Match type to use |
| key | string | Attribute or Header fields to match |
| value | string | Value to match |
       
### Message Header

Object Header

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Object format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create particular object |
| container_id | ContainerID | Object's container |
| owner_id | OwnerID | Object's owner |
| creation_epoch | uint64 | Object creation Epoch |
| payload_length | uint64 | Size of payload in bytes. `0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF` means `payload_length` is unknown. |
| payload_hash | Checksum | Hash of payload bytes |
| object_type | ObjectType | Type of the object payload content |
| homomorphic_hash | Checksum | Homomorphic hash of the object payload |
| session_token | SessionToken | Session token, if it was used during Object creation. Need it to verify integrity and authenticity out of Request scope. |
| attributes | Attribute | User-defined object attributes |
| split | Split | Position of the object in the split hierarchy |
   
### Message Header.Attribute

`Attribute` is a user-defined Key-Value metadata pair attached to the
object.

Key name must be a object-unique valid UTF-8 string. Value can't be empty.
Objects with duplicated attribute names or attributes with empty values
will be considered invalid.

There are some "well-known" attributes starting with `__NEOFS__` prefix
that affect system behaviour:

* __NEOFS__UPLOAD_ID \
  Marks smaller parts of a split bigger object
* __NEOFS__EXPIRATION_EPOCH \
  Tells GC to delete object after that epoch

And some well-known attributes used by applications only:

* Name \
  Human-friendly name
* FileName \
  File name to be associated with the object on saving
* Timestamp \
  User-defined local time of object creation in Unix Timestamp format

For detailed description of each well-known attribute please see the
corresponding section in NeoFS Technical specification.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| key | string | string key to the object attribute |
| value | string | string value of the object attribute |
   
### Message Header.Split

Bigger objects can be split into a chain of smaller objects. Information
about inter-dependencies between spawned objects and how to re-construct
the original one is in the `Split` headers. Parent and children objects
must be within the same container.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| parent | ObjectID | Identifier of the origin object. Known only to the minor child. |
| previous | ObjectID | Identifier of the left split neighbor |
| parent_signature | Signature | `signature` field of the parent object. Used to reconstruct parent. |
| parent_header | Header | `header` field of the parent object. Used to reconstruct parent. |
| children | ObjectID | List of identifiers of the objects generated by splitting current one. |
| split_id | bytes | 16 byte UUIDv4 used to identify the split object hierarchy parts. Must be unique inside container. All objects participating in the split must have the same `split_id` value. |
   
### Message Object

Object structure. Object is immutable and content-addressed. It means
`ObjectID` will change if header or payload changes. It's calculated as a
hash of header field, which contains hash of object's payload.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| object_id | ObjectID | Object's unique identifier. |
| signature | Signature | Signed object_id |
| header | Header | Object metadata headers |
| payload | bytes | Payload bytes |
   
### Message ShortHeader

Short header fields

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| version | Version | Object format version. Effectively the version of API library used to create particular object. |
| creation_epoch | uint64 | Epoch when the object was created |
| owner_id | OwnerID | Object's owner |
| object_type | ObjectType | Type of the object payload content |
| payload_length | uint64 | Size of payload in bytes. `0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF` means `payload_length` is unknown |
| payload_hash | Checksum | Hash of payload bytes |
| homomorphic_hash | Checksum | Homomorphic hash of the object payload |
   
### Message SplitInfo

Meta information of split hierarchy for object assembly. With last part
one can traverse linked list of split hierarchy back to first part and
assemble original object. With linking object one can assembly object
straight away from the object parts.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| split_id | bytes | 16 byte UUID used to identify the split object hierarchy parts. |
| last_part | ObjectID | Identifier of the last object in split hierarchy parts. It contains split header with original object header. |
| link | ObjectID | Identifier of linking object for split hierarchy parts. It contains split header with original object header and sorted list of object parts. |
    
### Emun MatchType

Type of match expression

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | MATCH_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED | Unknown. Not used |
| 1 | STRING_EQUAL | Full string match |
| 2 | STRING_NOT_EQUAL | Full string mismatch |
| 3 | NOT_PRESENT | Lack of key |

### Emun ObjectType

Type of the object payload content. Only `REGULAR` type objects can be split,
hence `TOMBSTONE` and `STORAGEGROUP` payload is limited by maximal object
size.

String presentation of object type is PascalCased `ObjectType` enumeration
item name:
* Regular
* Tombstone
* StorageGroup

| Number | Name | Description |
| ------ | ---- | ----------- |
| 0 | REGULAR | Just a normal object |
| 1 | TOMBSTONE | Used internally to identify deleted objects |
| 2 | STORAGE_GROUP | StorageGroup information |
